So Redis doesn't have the concept of
databases or anything like that, or
collections or tables,
it's really just a big grab bag of keys.
So now anytime I can just ask for
name, and it's just a bunch of keys.
The thing that you should be worried about
is how do I make sure that I don't have
naming collisions, right?
How do I make sure that I
don't use name later, and
you're gonna do that with
something called namespaces.
It's just the way that you're gonna
name your keys to make sure that you're
not overriding those keys later,
and I'll show you how to do that.
Let's say I was storing addresses for
users, or let's say city.
So we're sorting cities for users.
So what I could do,
let's say I had set, and
I'm gonna be working with my users and
my users all have addresses.
I'm gonna put a colon kind of just
separate these different things.
And then user:address, let's do this way.
It's kind of a trick to figure out
how you wanna name these things.
So, this is gonna be my user namespace.
And then I'm gonna have a use:btholt for
just my users namespace.
And then I'll have a city in here,
where I live, and I'll put Seattle there.
And then later, I'm gonna add
another user to this database,
and it's gonna be sarah_edo
is her her username and
put city, and she lives in Denver.
And then we'll have another user here,
user:1mark:city lives in Minneapolis.
I'm impressed that I
remembered how to spell that.
There's a lot of Ns in there, actually
there's just two Ns it feels like a lot.
But you can see here we kinda use these
namespaces to kinda separate these out.
Now I can be kinda assured that user and
then username and then kinda city in
second establish this kinda hierarchy
just by using nomenclature.
Like if you're familiar with
the BEM way as naming CSS,
it's kind of the same ideas, these names
in another cell don't have any power.
But we're using these kind of hierarchy
to describe things to make sure we
don't have naming collisions, right?
Again, namespacing is kind
of how you refer to that.
I mostly see people use colons with Redis.
Just the way it is, I don't know
why people chose to do it that way.
But I also have seen people do
user/btholt/city or they'll mix and
match to user:bthold/city,
I'll see people use slashes as well.
So however you wanna do that.
And then again later,
we can do Get user:btholt:city, and
it'll give us back that I live in Seattle.
Make sense?
It's kind of just a general tip of how
to keep things separated while in Redis.
>> Okay, I can choose whatever element
I can, like other than that columns.
>> Can use any delimiter
that you want to with Redis.
I think so, let's go with yes, I think
you can use whatever delimiter you want.
I think, they'll again generally
see people use colons.
And I think there's some tooling that
they've actually built around people,
assuming you use colons and slashes.
But there's nothing from stopping me of
saying user.btholtd.city
Seattle pretty sure.
Yeah, I mean that should work just fine.
It's a good question though.
I'm trying to strongly encourage you to
use colons though because that's what
people generally use, cool.
So something else really
kind of interesting and
strange I've seen people do is, let's say
you have a list of photos that you've
banned from your website and
people keep trying to upload this photo.
So what they'll do is they'll actually
use the photo binary as the key,
cuz these keys can actually be
almost arbitrarily large they can be
up to 512 megabytes of length for the key.
I don't do that, I think it's actually a
poor idea because then you slow down your
lookups because it has to traverse
through these giant keys, but
it is technically possible
to use binaries as the keys.
In that particular case, what I would say,
I would take a hash an MD5 or
an SAJ, a SHA, as people say, of the photo
and then use that as the key and
then you would know if I can upload or
not that particular photo.
But there's a lot of clever
things that you can do with Redis